What is a Test Plan?
A test plan is a detailed document which describes software testing areas and activities. 
It outlines the test strategy, objectives, test schedule, required resources, test estimation and test deliverables.
The test plan is a base of every software's testing.
The test plan serves as a blueprint to conduct software testing activities as a defined process, which is minutely monitored and controlled by the test manager.

What is the importance of Test Planning?
It helps to avoid out-of-scope functionalities.
It determines the time, cost, and effort.
It helps you control risk.
They offer a clear guide for QA engineers to conduct their testing activities.

What are the components of the Test Plan?
Scope
Schedule
Environment
Tools
Risk Management
Resource allocation
Defect Management
Exit Parameters

Some Test Cases for Market Place Website:

1. General Test Cases-
Whether the website links are redirected to correct category/product pages.
Whether there is clear visibility of the product, price, category name, product description, and company logo.
And whether or not each category page has a product that is specifically listed for that category.
The overall number of items mentioned on category pages is accurate.

2. Homepage Test Cases-
The auto-scrolling feature is present or not.
When the client hovers over the Homepage, does it scroll to the next one?
check at what interval the images will be refreshed?
How much time is being taken to change the slides?
Are the tabs working properly present on the home page?
How long are the tabs taking to open?
Does it direct consumers to the correct page or product offer when they click on it?
Whether the homepage is appearing in the same manner in various browsers.

3. Search Test Cases-
Is it possible to search using the product’s name, brand name, or other identifiers?
If the drop-down list is coming with proper names of items.
If the name is wrong or there is a typing error, will the search list show the corrected recommendations?
How much time searching feature is taking to display the contents.

4. Product Description Test Cases-
The delivery destination verification option is present on the page.
The picture of the product is enlarging on clicking.
The price of the product is displayed.
Delivery options are displayed.
Shipping information is displayed.
The review section is functioning.
Out of stock or In stock, information is showing on the page.

5. Payment Test Cases-
If all the payment options present are working properly.
On clicking on a particular payment option, the extra charges required for that one is displaying correctly.
Offers available on choosing a particular mode of payment are displayed with all the correct information.
Security is maintained in this area because clients are entering their personal information into the eCommerce site.
Whether the customers receive an order confirmation as a Text message/email along with an order number as soon as they complete the transaction.

6. Shopping Cart Test Cases-
Is the checkout option working or not.
The continue shopping option is working or not.
All items are displayed that were added in the cart.
If one item is added twice, the number of the item present is showing the amount correctly.
Apply coupon section is functioning.
The price calculation is done correctly.
The add ons like taxes, shipping charges, etc. are displayed separately along with the product's individual price.
Remove item from the cart option is working.
Check that the user can choose the desired attribute of the product, like color, size, etc., on the product page.
Check that the users can add the products to their wishlist.
Check that the user can purchase the products added to the cart after signing in to the app.
Check that the product return option is working fine.

7. Recommended Product Test Cases-
Are the recommendations coming on the page immediately after the client confirms the order they have made?
Are the recommendations of having relevant products that will interest the client?

8. Registration/Login Test Cases-
Check whether all the identified fields are added to the registration page/login page.
Verify that leaving the mandatory fields empty and clicking the submit button will result in a validation error. 
Validate the textboxes’ upper limit.
Check validation on the numeric fields by filling in special characters and alphabets.
Check that entering blank spaces on mandatory fields results in a validation error.
Check that the mandatory/required fields are marked with “*.”
Check if the page displays both reset/ submit and cancel buttons at the end.
Check that leaving the optional fields empty and clicking the submit button will send data to the server with no validation error. 

9. Post Order Page Test Cases-
Check if the customer can cancel the order or alter the order quantity
Check if the customer can review recent purchase orders and previous orders.
Check if the customer can change the billing or shipping information or other profile info.

